Make "task_id" optional in "/hpke_config" endpoint (#303)
ietf-wg-ppm/draft-ietf-ppm-dap: draft-ietf-ppm-dap.md

| batchLifetimeExceeded      | The batch lifetime has been exceeded for one or more reports included in the batch. |
| batchMismatch              | Aggregators disagree on the report shares that were aggregated in a batch. |
| unauthorizedRequest        | Authentication of an HTTP request failed (see {{https-sender-auth}}). |

> | missingTaskId              | `/hpke_config` endpoint received a request without `task_id` parameter (see {{hpke-config}}). |

Reviewer: While precise, this description of error is hard to parse without knowing the protocol context. What's going on here, intuitively?

Reviewer: Also, @tgeoghegan: would you prefer `missingTaskId` or `missingTaskID`? I think the latter might be more consistent.

Author: > While precise, this description of error is hard to parse without knowing the protocol context. What's going on here, intuitively?

Should I add on to the above text with "if a deployment enforces different HPKE configurations for different tasks"?

Regarding TaskId vs TaskID, I think the type definition is `TaskId` at line 608, but there are struct fields where `TaskID` is used, so it seems like there is some inconsistency here. I was trying to follow the original type definition.

Reviewer: > Should I add on to the above text with "if a deployment enforces different HPKE configurations for different tasks"?

I would simplify it. How about:
```
HPKE config requested without specifying the task ID
```

> Regarding TaskId vs TaskID, I think the type definition is `TaskId` at line 608, but there are struct fields where `TaskID` is used, so it seems like there is some inconsistency here. I was trying to follow the original type definition.

Ah OK, nice catch. Let's correct the inconsistency here. It seems like the preference is likely to be "ID".

Reviewer 2: [RFC 7807](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc7807.html#section-4) doesn't have any obvious guidance I can see, but if we look at [ACME aka RFC 8555](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc8555.html#section-6.7)'s errors, it has types like `badCSR`, `caa` and `dns`, which I think would lead us to using `missingTaskId`, and that would be consistent with the struct definitions elsewhere. But I'm happy with either; the ambiguous case problems weren't introduced by this change and can always be cleaned up later in the standardization process.

Reviewer: Works for me

algorithm choices.

Clients retrieve the HPKE configuration from each aggregator by
sending an HTTP GET request to `[aggregator]/hpke_config`, where
`[aggregator]` is the aggregator's endpoint URL, obtained from the task

> parameters. A deployment MAY choose to use different HPKE configurations
> for different tasks, so clients can optionally specify a query parameter `task_id`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
parameters. A deployment may choose to use different HPKE configurations
for different tasks, so clients MAY specify a query parameter `task_id`
```

Author: Fixed now.

when sending an HTTP GET request to `[aggregator]/hpke_config?task_id=[task-id]`,
where `[task-id]` is the task ID obtained from the task parameters,
encoded in Base 64 with URL and filename safe alphabet with no padding, as
specified in sections 5 and 3.2 of {{!RFC4648}}. If the aggregator does not
recognize the task ID, then it responds with HTTP status code 404 Not Found and
an error of type `unrecognizedTask`. If a deployment enforces different HPKE
configurations for different tasks, and a client doesn't specify `task_id` in the
HTTP GET request, then the aggregator responds with HTTP status code 400 Bad Request

> and an error of type `unrecognizedMessage`. The aggregator responds to well-formed

Reviewer 2: `unrecognizedMessage` and HTTP 400 seem inappropriate. The problem isn't an incorrectly encoded message, it's that this particular aggregator chooses not to implement this functionality. If a client does `GET /hpke_config` and the server doesn't support it, it should get some indication that it should now try `GET /hpke_config?task_id=[task_id]`.

[HTTP 422](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Status/422) seems pretty appropriate for this case ("the server understands the content type of the request entity, and the syntax of the request entity is correct, but it was unable to process the contained instructions"). I think we should use that status code and define a new problem document type (in section 3.1 errors) for this specific case.

Reviewer: +1 to new abort type (e.g., "missingTaskId"), but @tgeoghegan, we currently we return the same status code for all abort cases (400). It might be a good idea to let the status code differ for different abort types, but we should leave that out of this change I think.

Reviewer 2: That's fair enough. The problem document type will make this explicit enough, and [RFC 9205](https://httpwg.org/specs/rfc9205.html#using-http-status-codes) recommends using the most general possible HTTP status anyway (in this case, 400).

Author: Sounds good, I added a new `missingTaskId` problem type under {{Errors}}.

requests with HTTP status code 200 OK and a vector of `HpkeConfig` value:

[TODO: Allow aggregators to return HTTP status code 403 Forbidden in deployments
that use authentication to avoid leaking information about which tasks exist.]

~~~
struct {
  HpkeConfig hpke_configs<1..2^16-1>;

> } HpkeConfigResp;

Reviewer: I don't think this adequately addresses #248:
1. You have defined a new struct for a sequence of HPKE configs, but you have not changed the return type (see line 670 above).
2. This hasn't been discussed in the issue yet, but merely allowing the server to return multiple HPKE configs doesn't totally solve the problem. What is needed, I think, is a mechanism for allowing the client to indicate which cipher suites its supports.

In any case, I think we should push this change to a future PR. Best practices for spec review (as well as code review!) is to keep changes minimal.

Author: Sounds good, I reverted the changes on returning a vector of `HpkeConfig`. Previously I changed line 670 to indicate the endpoint would return a vector of `HpkeConfig` values, maybe I didn't explicitly say the return type would change to `HpkeConfigResp`.

My initial thinking was the endpoint would return all `HpkeConfig` that it supports, and clients can use any of them with a cipher suite that it recognizes. But I'm fine with addressing this in a separate PR if that's clearer.

Reviewer: In practice that might decrease the likelihood of failing to negotiate an HPKE suite, but I think we can do a bit better. In any case, this can/should be handled separately.

algorithm choices.

Clients retrieve the HPKE configuration from each aggregator by
sending an HTTP GET request to `[aggregator]/hpke_config`, where
`[aggregator]` is the aggregator's endpoint URL, obtained from the task
parameters. A deployment may choose to use different HPKE configurations
for different tasks, so clients MAY specify a query parameter `task_id`
when sending an HTTP GET request to `[aggregator]/hpke_config?task_id=[task-id]`,
where `[task-id]` is the task ID obtained from the task parameters,
encoded in Base 64 with URL and filename safe alphabet with no padding, as
specified in sections 5 and 3.2 of {{!RFC4648}}. If the aggregator does not
recognize the task ID, then it responds with HTTP status code 404 Not Found and
an error of type `unrecognizedTask`. If a deployment enforces different HPKE
configurations for different tasks, and a client doesn't specify `task_id` in the

> HTTP GET request, then the aggregator responds with HTTP status code 400 Bad Request

Reviewer: ```suggestion
HTTP GET request, then the aggregator MUST respond with HTTP status code 400 Bad Request
```

Reviewer: This could be stated a bit simpler as:
> then the Aggregator MUST abort with error `missingTaskId`.

Author: I added the MUST keyword, but still kept the HTTP status code, to be more explicit.

Reviewer: That's fine, but if later on we decide to change the status code, we'll have to update here as well. That's why it's better to specify something once.

algorithm choices.

Clients retrieve the HPKE configuration from each aggregator by
sending an HTTP GET request to `[aggregator]/hpke_config`, where `[aggregator]`
is the aggregator's endpoint URL, obtained from the task parameters.
Clients MAY specify a query parameter `task_id` when sending an
HTTP GET request to `[aggregator]/hpke_config?task_id=[task-id]`,
where `[task-id]` is the task ID obtained from the task parameters,
encoded in Base 64 with URL and filename safe alphabet with no padding, as
specified in sections 5 and 3.2 of {{!RFC4648}}. If the aggregator does not

> recognize the task ID, then it responds with HTTP status code 404 Not Found and

Reviewer: (Orthogonal to this PR, so we can clean up later if needed.) @tgeoghegan is 404 correct here you think?

Reviewer 2: My reading of [RFC 9205's discussion of HTTP statuses](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc9205#name-using-http-status-codes) is that we should lean toward HTTP 400 and communicate more specific issues with the problem document, but [I made a note in #278](https://github.com/ietf-wg-ppm/draft-ietf-ppm-dap/issues/278#issuecomment-1226237695) that we should take a look at all this, so I don't think we need to iterate on that in this PR.

algorithm choices.

Clients retrieve the HPKE configuration from each aggregator by
sending an HTTP GET request to `[aggregator]/hpke_config`, where `[aggregator]`
is the aggregator's endpoint URL, obtained from the task parameters.

A deployment MAY enforce different HPKE configurations for different tasks.

> In this case, clients MUST specify a query parameter `task_id` when

Reviewer 2: I think MUST isn't right in this case, because it's not a violation of the protocol for the client to not send a `task_id` query parameter when the aggregator lacks a "global" HPKE config. Same goes for the one one line 669, because an aggregator is always free to respond to a request without the `task_id` query parameter.

Author: I think this paragraph tries to characterize the behaviors of an aggregator, when the deployment needs to enforce different HPKE configurations for different tasks. In this case, clients are required to send `task_id`, and aggregators are required to abort if no `task_id` is included in the request. Should I be clearer about the assumptions in this paragraph, or should I relax the "MUST" keyword, perhaps to "SHOULD"?

Reviewer: I agree with Tim here. The problem is that the Client may not know a priori that the enforces HPKE key separation per task. I think a different tack is needed.

In the paragraph above where you specify the GET request, you should also add: "The Client MAY include the task ID with the query parameters. [Spell out what the path looks like.]"

In this paragraph, you should start off with: "The Aggregator is free to use different HPKE configurations for each task with which it's configured. If the task ID is missing from the Client's request, the Aggregator MAY abort with error "missingTaskID", in which case the Client SHOULD retry the request with the task ID included."

This accomplishes two things:
* It provides a way to obtain an HPKE config, regardless of how the Aggregator is configured.
* It permits the optional, deployment-specific beahvior.

Author: @tgeoghegan @cjpatton Please take a look again at the revised wording based on Chris's suggestions.

Reviewer: Looks good to me.

sending an HTTP GET request to `[aggregator]/hpke_config?task_id=[task-id]`,
where `[task-id]` is the task ID obtained from the task parameters,
encoded in Base 64 with URL and filename safe alphabet with no padding, as
specified in sections 5 and 3.2 of {{!RFC4648}}. If the aggregator does not
recognize the task ID, then it responds with HTTP status code 404 Not Found and
an error of type `unrecognizedTask`. If a client doesn't specify `task_id` in the
HTTP GET request, then the aggregator MUST abort with HTTP status code 400 Bad Request
and an error of type `missingTaskID`.

When a client doesn't know whether it needs to provide the `task_id` parameter, it can
first send an HTTP GET request to `[aggregator]/hpke_config`. The aggregator MAY abort with
an error of type `missingTaskID`, in which case the client can retry the request with a
well-formed `task_id`. Clients are free to skip the first HTTP request, if they know

> they need to provide a `task_id`.

Reviewer: I would fold this into the previous paragraph, as described above.

> The aggregator responds to well-formed requests with HTTP status code 200 OK and an `HpkeConfig` value:

Reviewer: nit: Wrap lines at 80 characters

Author: Fixed now.
